# SM2 ECC Algorithms {#sm2-algorithm}

SM2 is an elliptic curve based cryptosystem (ECC) [@!SM2] designed by
Xiaoyun Wang et al and published by [@OSCCA] [@I-D.shen-sm2-ecdsa].

The SM2 cryptosystem is composed of three distinct algorithms:

* an elliptical curve digital signature algorithm ("SM2DSA") [@!SM2-2], also
  described in [@I-D.shen-sm2-ecdsa];
* a key exchange protocol ("SM2KEP") [@SM2-3]; and
* a public key encryption algorithm ("SM2PKE") [@!SM2-4].

This document will refer to all three algorithms for the usage of
OpenPGP [@RFC4880].

## SM2 Digital Signature Algorithm

The SM2 Digital Signature Algorithm is intended for digital signature
and verifications in commercial cryptographic applications, including,
but not limited to:

* identity authentication
* protection of data integrity
* verification of data authenticity

The process of digital signature signing and verifying along with their
examples are found in [@SM2-2], and also described in [@I-D.shen-sm2-ecdsa].

The SM2DSA process requires usage of a hash function within. For
OSCCA-compliant usage, a OSCCA-compliant hash function such as SM3 [@SM3]
**MUST** also be used.

In OpenPGP, SM2DSA is an alternative to the ECDSA algorithm specified in
[@RFC6637].

The SM2DSA algorithm has been cryptanalyzed to a certain extent, with the
current strongest attack being nonce [@SM2-DSA-Nonces] [@SM2-DSA-Nonces2]
and lattice attacks [@SM2-DSA-Lattice].


## SM2 Key Exchange Protocol

The SM2 Key Exchange Protocol is used for cryptographic key exchange,
allowing the negoatiation and exchange of a session key within two to
three message transfers.

The process of key exchange and verification along with their examples
are found in [@SM2-3], and also described in [@I-D.shen-sm2-ecdsa].

SM2KEP is not used with OpenPGP as it is a two- to three- pass key
exchange mechanism, while in OpenPGP public keys of recipients are
available initially.

The SM2KEP is now considered insecure due to [@SM2-KEP-Comments], similar
in status to the Unified Model and MQV schemes described in [@NIST.SP.800-56Ar2].


## SM2 Public Key Encryption

The SM2 Public Key Encryption algorithm is an elliptic curve
(ECC) based asymmetric encryption algorithm. It is used for
cryptographic encryption and decryption, allowing the message sender to
utilize the public key of the message receiver to encrypt the message,
with the recipient decrypting the messaging using his private key.

The full description of SM2PKE is provided in [@I-D.shen-sm2-ecdsa].

It utilizes a public key size of 512 bits and private key size of 256
bits [@GMT-0003.1-2012].

The process of encryption and decryption, along with their examples are
found in [@SM2-4].

The SM2PKE process requires usage of a hash function within. For
OSCCA-compliant usage, a OSCCA-compliant hash function such as SM3 [@SM3]
**MUST** also be used.

In OpenPGP, SM2PKE is an alternative to RSA specified in [@RFC4880].


## Recommended SM2 Curve

The recommended curve is specified in [@!SM2-5] and provided here for reference.
SM2 uses a 256-bit elliptic curve.

### Definitions

p
: a number larger than 3

a, b
: elements of $$F_q$$, defines an elliptic curve E on $$F_q$$

n
: Order of base point G (n is a prime factor of $$E(F_q))$$

x\_G
: x-coordinate of generator G

y\_G
: y-coordinate of generator G

### Elliptic Curve Formula

$$
y^2 = x^3 + ax + b
$$

### Curve Parameters

```
p   = FFFFFFFE FFFFFFFF FFFFFFFF FFFFFFFF
      FFFFFFFF 00000000 FFFFFFFF FFFFFFFF
a   = FFFFFFFE FFFFFFFF FFFFFFFF FFFFFFFF
      FFFFFFFF 00000000 FFFFFFFF FFFFFFFC
b   = 28E9FA9E 9D9F5E34 4D5A9E4B CF6509A7
      F39789F5 15AB8F92 DDBCBD41 4D940E93
n   = FFFFFFFE FFFFFFFF FFFFFFFF FFFFFFFF
      7203DF6B 21C6052B 53BBF409 39D54123
x_G = 32C4AE2C 1F198119 5F990446 6A39C994
      8FE30BBF F2660BE1 715A4589 334C74C7
y_G = BC3736A2 F4F6779C 59BDCEE3 6B692153
      D0A9877C C62A4740 02DF32E5 2139F0A0
```